docs(turbopack): Merge the contents of the "cells" page in the mdbook with our rustdocs (#91126)
vercel/next.js: turbopack/crates/turbo-tasks/src/vc/README.md

<img alt="A diagram showing where cells are stored in tasks" width="850px" src="https://h8dxkfmaphn8o0p3.public.blob.vercel-storage.com/rustdoc-images/RawVc.excalidraw.png">
<figcaption style="font-style: italic; font-size: 80%;">
<tt>TaskOutput</tt>s point to a specific task, and refer to the output cell for that task. <tt>TaskCell</tt>s point to a specific cell within a task. Task cells are stored in a table (conceptually a <tt>Map&lt;ValueTypeId, Vec&lt;SharedReference&gt;&gt</tt>) and are referenced by a pair of a type id and a sequentially allocated index.
</figcaption>
<!-- https://excalidraw.com/#json=Dfb59fd_4hUjwNkoSrL4y,PQ1myzskgKE3IKyESoiYPg -->
</figure>

## Constructing a Cell

Most types using the [`#[turbo_tasks::value]` macro][value-macro] are given a `.cell()` method. This method returns a `Vc` of the type.

Transparent wrapper types that use [`#[turbo_tasks::value(transparent)]`][value-macro] cannot define methods on their wrapped type, so instead the [`Vc::cell`] function can be used to construct these types.

[`Vc::cell`]: /rustdoc/turbo_tasks/struct.Vc.html#method.cell

## Updating a Cell

Every time a task runs, its cells are re-constructed.

> When `.cell()` or `Vc::cell` is called, the value is compared to the previous execution's using `PartialEq`. If it differs, the cell is updated, and all dependent tasks are invalidated. This behavior [can be overridden to always invalidate using the `cell = "new"` argument][value-macro].

Reviewer: Is that actually what happens?
I thought:
1. when calling `.cell()`, it uses that task-local counter to create the cell and put the value in. regardless of whether the value is different
2. the PartialEq you are talking about only influences the invalidation

Author: The counter is unconditionally incremented, yes. This is only attempting to describe the invalidation behavior.

I think you're right, but I also think this doc is right?

TODO: Make a mention about incrementing the counter before talking about storage?

Reviewer: I would just say:
"The cell is updated, and if the cell content changed, all dependent tasks are invalidated."

Author: That's slightly wrong. We don't update the contents of the cell if the value is equal: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/36698c94634949eda9eb7d870416097072d6b75c/turbopack/crates/turbo-tasks/src/manager.rs#L2115-L2127

If we updated the contents, we might waste time and memory copying things and duplicating data that's stored inside `ReadRef`s.

Of course, if your `PartialEq`+`Eq` implementation is correct, this shouldn't matter.

## Constructing a Cell

Most types using the [`#[turbo_tasks::value]` macro][value-macro] are given a `.cell()` method. This method returns a `Vc` of the type.

Transparent wrapper types that use [`#[turbo_tasks::value(transparent)]`][value-macro] cannot define methods on their wrapped type, so instead the [`Vc::cell`] function can be used to construct these types.

[`Vc::cell`]: /rustdoc/turbo_tasks/struct.Vc.html#method.cell

## Updating a Cell

Every time a task runs, its cells are re-constructed.

When `.cell()` or `Vc::cell` is called, the cell counter for the `ValueTypeId` is incremented, and the value is compared to the previous execution's using `PartialEq`. If the value with that index differs, the cell is updated, and all dependent tasks are invalidated.

The compare-then-update behavior [can be overridden to always update and invalidate using the `cell = "new"` argument][value-macro].

Because cells are keyed by a combination of their type and construction order, **task functions should have a deterministic execution order**. A function with inconsistent ordering may result in wasted work by invalidating additional cells, though it will still give correct results.

> You should use types with deterministic behavior such as [`IndexMap`], [`BTreeMap`], or [`FrozenMap`] in place of types like [`HashMap`] (which gives randomized iteration order).

Reviewer 2: also call out that parallel/async loops are a common footgun, so `cell` construction should be moved outside of them

Reviewer 2: i guess this is also a bit odd since it is actually fine to store a `HashMap` in a cell, it is just dangerous to iterate it and then construct cells....

Author: I added clarification here for both of these things.

- `Vc` types are always [`Copy`]. Most [`Future`]s are not. This works because `Vc`s are represented as a few ids or indices into data structures managed by the `turbo-tasks` framework. `Vc` types are not reference counted, but do support [tracing] for a hypothetical (unimplemented) garbage collector.

- An uncached [`turbo_tasks::function`] that returns a `Vc` [begins after being called, even if the `Vc` is not `await`ed](#execution-model).

[`IntoFuture`]: std::future::IntoFuture
[`Future`]: std::future::Future
[`ReadRef`]: crate::ReadRef
[`turbo_tasks::function`]: crate::function

## Subtypes

There are a couple of explicit "subtypes" of `Vc`. These can both be cheaply converted back into a `Vc`.

- **[`ResolvedVc`]:** *(aka [`RawVc::TaskCell`])* A reference to a cell constructed within a task, as part of a [`Vc::cell`] or `value_type.cell()` constructor. As the cell has been constructed at least once, the concrete type of the cell is known (allowing [downcasting][ResolvedVc::try_downcast]). This is stored as a combination of a task id, a type id, and a cell id.

> - **[`OperationVc`]:** *(aka [`RawVc::TaskOutput`])* The synchronous return value of a [`turbo_tasks::function`]. Internally, this is stored using a task id. Exact type information of trait types (i.e. `Vc<Box<dyn Trait>>`) is not known because the function may not have finished execution yet. [`OperationVc`]s must first be [`connect`][crate::OperationVc::connect]ed before being read.

Reviewer 2: This sentence about `trait types` applies to all Vcs not just OperaztionVcs

but it is important (this literally came up in conversation with matt last week)

so maybe just a note below that `Vc<Box<dyn Trait>>` are not 'fat-pointers' and tasks need to be read to resolve their v-tables

Author: - It's a little weirder to explain than that, because if a `Vc` happens to internally be resolved, we do know the type information, we just don't expose it because we don't know if we have it or not, and the exact semantics are complicated (could be a local task).
- I think calling it a "fat pointer" might lead to some wrong assumptions as the analogy only stretches so far.

I'm adding an extra sentence after the `RawVc` paragraph that hopefully clears this up:

> This means that `Vc` often uses the same in-memory representation as a `ResolvedVc` or an `OperationVc`, but it does not expose the same methods (e.g. downcasting) because the exact memory representation is not statically defined.

Reviewer 2: sorry i was saying that it very much is _not_ a fat pointer.  `into_trait_ref` or normal function execution still requires a complicated set of lookups to find the function to call

| [`OperationVc`] | [Task Id][rto]                     | ✅ Yes\*        | ⚠️  After resolution        | ✅ [Supported][strong] | ✅ [Yes][collect] | ✅ Yes       |

*\* see the type's documentation for details*

[`ResolvedVc`]: crate::ResolvedVc
[`OperationVc`]: crate::OperationVc
[`turbo_tasks::function`]: crate::function
[`State`]: crate::State
[Non-Local]: crate::NonLocalValue
[rtc]: crate::RawVc::TaskCell
[rto]: crate::RawVc::TaskOutput
[loc]: #optimization-local-outputs
[eq]: #equality--hashing
[resolve]: crate::ResolvedVc::try_downcast
[strong]: crate::OperationVc::read_strongly_consistent
[collect]: crate::CollectiblesSource

## Equality & Hashing

Because `Vc`s can be equivalent but have different representation, it's not recommended to compare `Vc`s by equality. Instead, you should convert a `Vc` to an explicit subtype first (likely [`ResolvedVc`]). Future versions of `Vc` may not implement [`Eq`], [`PartialEq`], or [`Hash`].

## Execution Model

While task functions are expected to be side-effect free, their execution behavior is still important for performance reasons, or to code using [collectibles] to represent issues or side-effects.

> Even if not awaited, uncached function calls are guaranteed to execute (potentially emitting collectibles) before the root task finishes or before the completion of any strongly consistent read containing their call. However, the exact point when that execution begins is an implementation detail. Functions may execute more than once due to dirty task invalidation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even if not awaited, uncached function calls are guaranteed to execute (potentially emitting collectibles) before the root task finishes or before the completion of any strongly consistent read containing their call. However, the exact point when that execution begins is an implementation detail. Functions may execute more than once if one of their dependencies is invalidated.
```
